Move FC-quickstarts and update Basic assembly (#3228)
PX4/PX4-user_guide: en/assembly/_assembly.md

:::

## Flight Controller Overview

The images below show Pixhawk v6x flight controllers from CUAV and Holybro.
Their available ports are very similar because they are both [Pixhawk standard autopilots](../flight_controller/autopilot_pixhawk_standard.md) that have adopted the [Pixhawk connector standard](https://github.com/pixhawk/Pixhawk-Standards/blob/master/DS-009%20Pixhawk%20Connector%20Standard.pdf).

<img src="../../assets/assembly/pixhawk6x_holybro.jpg" width="300px" title="Holybro Pixhawk6x" /><img src="../../assets/assembly/pixhawk6x_cuav.jpg" width="300px" title="Cuav Pixhawk6x" />

The connector standard ports are listed below, along with their labels on each of the FCs, and what they are used for.
The FCs have much the same ports with similar names, and core peripherals are connected in the same way.

| Standard                    | Holybro       | CUAV                | Connect to ...                                               |
| --------------------------- | ------------- | ------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |

> | Full GPS plus Safety Switch | GPS1          | GPS&SAFETY          | Primary GPS (gps, compass, safety switch, buzzer, LED)       |

Author: Yes, we should use GNSS everywhere we can. There are plenty of places we can't, such as labels on FCs, and product names.

> | Basic GPS                   | GPS2          | GPS2                | Secondary GPS (GPS/compass)                                  |

Author: ```suggestion
| Basic GPS                   | GPS2          | GPS2                | Secondary GNSS module (GNSS/compass)                                  |
```

To reduce the impact of vibration on the flight controllers internal IMU(s) and gyroscope(s) you should mount the controller using mounting foam if provided, and otherwise follow manufacturer guidance.

::: info
If the controller cannot be mounted in the recommended/default orientation (e.g. due to space constraints) you will need to configure the autopilot software with the orientation that you actually used: [Flight Controller Orientation](../config/flight_controller_orientation.md).
:::

## GNSS/Compass (+ Buzzer + Safety Switch + LED)

Pixhawk Autopilot systems usually include a primary [GNSS/Compass module](../gps_compass/#supported-gnss) that incorporates a [buzzer](../getting_started/px4_basic_concepts.md#buzzer), [safety switch](../getting_started/px4_basic_concepts.md#safety-switch), and [UI LED](../getting_started/led_meanings.md#ui-led), and may also have a secondary GPS/compass module.
[RTK GNSS](../gps_compass/rtk_gps.md) modules with centimetre accuracy are also supported.

> GNSS/Compass modules [should be mounted on the frame](../assembly/mount_gps_compass.md) as far away from other electronics as possible, with the direction marker pointing towards the front of the vehicle (separating the compass from other electronics will reduce electromagnetic interference).

Author: I know, but this is the easiest way of mounting so you don't have to explain the detail, and also for users so they don't have to configure anything
I'll tweak.

```suggestion
GNSS/Compass modules should be mounted on the frame as far away from other electronics as possible — separating the compass from other electronics will reduce electromagnetic interference.
Provided the direction marker is oriented upright and facing towards the front of the vehicle, or at some 45 degrees multiple offset in any axis, the orientation will be auto-detected during calibration.
If needed you can orient at other offsets, but then you'll need to manually set the orientation.
For more information see [Mounting a Compass (or GNSS/Compass)](../assembly/mount_gps_compass.md).
```

The modules connect to either serial ports or to the CAN bus.

### Serial Port GNSS Modules

The primary GNSS/compass module is connected to the flight controller ort labeled `GPS1` or `GPS&SAFETY`, which should be a 10-Pin JST GH connector.

> A second GPS/compass module, if present, is attached to the 6-pin port labeled `GPS2`.

Author: ```suggestion
A second GNSS/compass module, if present, is attached to the 6-pin port labeled `GPS2`.
```

- [Cube Wiring Quickstart](../assembly/quick_start_cube.md) (All cube variants)
- [Pixracer Wiring Quickstart](../assembly/quick_start_pixracer.md)
- [mRo (3DR) Pixhawk Wiring Quickstart](../assembly/quick_start_pixhawk.md)

## See Also

- [Drone Components & Parts](../getting_started/px4_basic_concepts.md#drone-components-parts) (Basic Concepts)
- [Payloads](../getting_started/px4_basic_concepts.md#payloads) (Basic Concepts)
- [Hardware Selection & Setup](../hardware/drone_parts.md) — information about connecting and configuring specific flight controllers, sensors and other peripherals (e.g. airspeed sensor for planes).
  - [Mounting the Flight Controller](../assembly/mount_and_orient_controller.md)
  - [Vibration Isolation](../assembly/vibration_isolation.md)
  - [Mounting a Compass](../assembly/mount_gps_compass.md)

<div v-if="$frontmatter.frame === 'Multicopter'">

::: info
The and sections of [PX4 Basic Concepts](../getting_started/px4_basic_concepts.md) provide a broad overview of the main drone components.
[Hardware Selection & Setup](../hardware/drone_parts.md) contains details about specific hardware, including selection, assembly, and configuration.
:::

> - [Multicopter Racer Setup](../config_mc/racer_setup.md) — racer-specific assembly and configuration information (racers don't have GPS module)

Author: ```suggestion
- [Multicopter Racer Setup](../config_mc/racer_setup.md) — racer-specific assembly and configuration information (racers don't usually have a GNSS module)
```
